readme.md, before:

## How to get started

### Prerequisites
- Docker Desktop https://docs.docker.com/desktop/
- java version: 21 (https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/download-install-java-windows-linux-macos/). Make sure you also install the `JAVA_HOME` variable discussed in the link. For more info about `JAVA_HOME` use https://www.baeldung.com/java-home-on-windows-mac-os-x-linux
- ide. For backend development, IntelliJ is recommend. It has a free community version. https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/?section=windows No ide is needed when you are only running the backend to work on the frontend. The instructions below are all in the terminal.

### Running application
- go to `super_backend` dir in the terminal
- Run in terminal `docker compose up -d` to start up docker container with postgres database
- Run the following command in the terminal `.\mvnw.cmd spring-boot:run` to start up the backend
  - Windows: `.\mvnw.cmd spring-boot:run`
  - Mac/Linux `./mvnw spring-boot:run`. It could be that you have to run `chmod +x mvnw` before you can run `spring-boot:run`

### Shutting down application
- In the terminal use `ctrl+c` to shut down the application
- Run `docker compose down --volumes` to shut down the database

## Swagger

You can go to http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html to view the open api definition provided by swagger while running the application

### MapStruct

MapStruct is a package that generates the boilerplate code for mappers. If you name the variables in the entities and DTOs the same, it makes you live really easy. See for quick guide: https://www.baeldung.com/mapstruct


## to use h2 db to persist while we setup postgres
I added a h2 db to get started persisting and building out your services. Meanwhile we decide where to host our postgres db and backend.
find more info here: https://www.h2database.com/html/main.html , https://howtodoinjava.com/spring-boot/h2-database-example/
after running the spring boot app in 

```src/main/java/com/example/demo/AppApplication.java```

go ahead and run it. once it finished. go ahead to 

``http://localhost:8080/h2-console`` (assuming hosted on port 8080)
you should see: 
![img.png](img.png)

and use:
the saved setting: Generic H2 (Embedded)

setting name: Generic H2(Embedded)

driver class: org.h2.Driver

jdbc url: jdbc:h2:file:./super_backend/data/mydb

username: sa

password:

password is a blank space*  

screen should be like this

once you logged in this should be what you see. 
![img_1.png](img_1.png)


## Entity diagram with PlantUML plugin

You need to install the plugin in IntelliJ to create the diagram.y

 - plugin: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7017-plantuml-integration
 - documentation: https://plantuml.com/class-diagram

Commit message:

doc: added instructions for starting up backend with authorization

readme.md, after:

## How to get started

### Prerequisites
- Docker Desktop https://docs.docker.com/desktop/
- java version: 21 (https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/download-install-java-windows-linux-macos/). Make sure you also install the `JAVA_HOME` variable discussed in the link. For more info about `JAVA_HOME` use https://www.baeldung.com/java-home-on-windows-mac-os-x-linux
- ide. For backend development, IntelliJ is recommend. It has a free community version. https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/?section=windows No ide is needed when you are only running the backend to work on the frontend. The instructions below are all in the terminal.

### Running application
- go to `super_backend` dir in the terminal
- Run in terminal `docker compose up -d` to start up docker container with postgres database
- Set the environment variable `JWT_SECRET_ENV`. It should be a string of at least 32 characters. An example could be: `THisIsaveryLongJWTsecretThatshouldBeALittleBitLongerITHinkItisLongEnough`. If you want to use the JWT token from a previous session, you must ensure that the secret is the same secret. I set a temperary variable in my terminal at the begiining of the day once like this: 
  - Powershell: run `$env:JWT_SECRET_ENV="{YOUR_SECRET}"`. You can check with `echo $env:JWT_SECRET_ENV` if you set the variable
  - Mac/Linux: run `export JWT_SECRET_ENV="{YOUR_SECRET}""`. You can check with `echo $JWT_SECRET_ENV` if you set the variable
- Run the following command in the terminal to start up the backend
  - Powershell: `./mvnw.cmd spring-boot:run`
  - Mac/Linux `./mvnw spring-boot:run`. It could be that you have to run `chmod +x mvnw` before you can run `spring-boot:run`

### Shutting down application
- In the terminal use `ctrl+c` to shut down the application
- Run `docker compose down --volumes` to shut down the database

## Swagger

You can go to http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html to view the open api definition provided by swagger while running the application

### MapStruct

MapStruct is a package that generates the boilerplate code for mappers. If you name the variables in the entities and DTOs the same, it makes you live really easy. See for quick guide: https://www.baeldung.com/mapstruct


## to use h2 db to persist while we setup postgres
I added a h2 db to get started persisting and building out your services. Meanwhile we decide where to host our postgres db and backend.
find more info here: https://www.h2database.com/html/main.html , https://howtodoinjava.com/spring-boot/h2-database-example/
after running the spring boot app in 

```src/main/java/com/example/demo/AppApplication.java```

go ahead and run it. once it finished. go ahead to 

``http://localhost:8080/h2-console`` (assuming hosted on port 8080)
you should see: 
![img.png](img.png)

and use:
the saved setting: Generic H2 (Embedded)

setting name: Generic H2(Embedded)

driver class: org.h2.Driver

jdbc url: jdbc:h2:file:./super_backend/data/mydb

username: sa

password:

password is a blank space*  

screen should be like this

once you logged in this should be what you see. 
![img_1.png](img_1.png)


## Entity diagram with PlantUML plugin

You need to install the plugin in IntelliJ to create the diagram.y

 - plugin: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7017-plantuml-integration
 - documentation: https://plantuml.com/class-diagram
